Ti=The process of establishing appropriate data classification and sharing routines:

sec=While it is the aspiration of Open Government to eventually have all public records available in accessible formats as open data, the transition from industrial era document-centered systems to data-driven networked systems requires time. This process of transition to digital footing for the City of Boston will require periodic and interdependent reforms across every discipline and domain of city government.  Rendering public records as open data is an important step toward successful digital transition.  The development of reliable and efficient methods to identify and classify Protected Data and to distinguish it from Open Data will require iterative cycles of progress and phases of refinement.  Civilian governmental departments at the local, state and federal levels are not accustomed to defining and classifying all data in their possession as open or protected.  Response to public information requests on a case by case basis require a very different  and much narrower approach to data classification. More importantly, the current state of law and policy has been overtaken by the pace of technical change.  The advance of widely accessible data analytics capabilities has changed the playing field with respect to privacy and personal data management.  Today, distinguishing whether data disclosure may reveal individual identities is a vastly more complex challenge because the compilation of otherwise public data by third parties using big data analytics can result in violation of reasonable expectations to privacy.  In order to publish open data while appropriately managing privacy and other risks, a careful and deliberate approach must be established and refined over time.  The process of establishing mature and stable data classification and publishing policies begins with adherence to the criteria set by Mayor Walsh in his Executive Order on open and protected data and will continue through cycles of revisions and amendments to City of Boston information practices, policies and procedures.   All parts of municipal government are involved in the transition to a data-driven city.  City of Boston public administration and departmental operations (the business layer), rules and policy (the legal layer) as well as systems and procedures (the technical layer) each play an important part in the governance of this transition.  As the transformation to a data-driven networked city unfolds, the business, legal and technical layers of municipal government will evolve significantly.  Although the municipal governments of Boston is a recognized leader at effective use of technology and data, in order to achieve the enterprise wide publishing of open data it is important for all departments to follow a simple, sustainable and stepwise approach.

=[Z/Sec/0]